README.md, before:

**Structure and background purpose of documents of the
verifiable LEI (vLEI) Ecosystem Governance Framework
For Trust over IP Member Review**

The Global Legal Entity Identifier Foundation (GLEIF) is pleased to invite members of the
Trust over IP Foundation to review the draft v1.0 of the verifiable LEI (vLEI) Governance
Framework. The review will run until January 15, 2022.

The documents of an Ecosystem Governance Framework (EGF) are comprised of a Primary
Document, one or more Controlled Documents (separate supporting documents focusing on
dedicated topics for the EGF) and the Credential Governance Frameworks.

To open an issue or comment click [here](https://github.com/trustoverip/egf-vlei-review/issues/new/choose)

**Primary Document**

_verifiable LEI (vLEI) Ecosystem Governance Framework Primary Document_
The primary document is the master document for the EGF. GLEIF suggests that you begin
your review of the vLEI EGF with this document.

**Controlled Documents**

Documents for the vLEI Issuer Qualification Program

There are several Controlled Documents that are dedicated to the roles and responsibilities
of Qualified vLEI Issuers. These documents are part of the Legal Agreement section of the
vLEI EGF. The main legal document is the vLEI Issuer Qualification Agreement to which
there are seven appendices.

_vLEI Issuer Qualification Agreement_
An agreement between GLEIF and an organization that has been qualified by GLEIF to
operate as a Qualified vLEI Issuer.

Appendices to vLEI Issuer Qualification Agreement

_Appendix 1: Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA)_
An agreement that outlines requirements for handling confidential information.
The GLEIF’s standard NDA is provided for completeness in the list of documents for the vLEI
Issuer Qualification Program and no feedback is necessary for this document.

_Appendix 2: vLEI Issuer Qualification Program Manual_
The document that describes the Qualification Program.

_Appendix 3: vLEI Issuer Qualification Program Checklist_
The document that details the control and process requirements for Qualification.


_Appendix 4: vLEI Issuer Contact Details_
A list of contact details of GLEIF and the Candidate vLEI Issuer during Qualification and of
GLEIF and the Qualified vLEI Issuer during ongoing operations. This list also will include the
contact details that GLEIF would need in order to manage the termination of a Qualified vLEI
Issuer. For this purpose, the names, titles and email addresses of the Legal Entities’
Authorized vLEI Representatives (AVRs) must be provided and updated on a regular basis as
a section to this appendix.

_Appendix 5: Qualified vLEI Issuer Service Level Agreement (SLA)_
A document that details the services to be provided by GLEIF and the Qualified vLEI Issuers
and the service level requirements for these services.
The formal SLA will be prepared prior to the implementation of the vLEI Issuer Qualification
Program in 2022 as Appendix 5 to the vLEI Issuer Qualification Agreement.

In the meantime, a vLEI Services Catalog has been prepared to provide background of the
services that will be developed for GLEIF and for the network of Qualified vLEI Issuers.

Although the vLEI Issuer Qualification Agreement and its appendices will be listed as
Controlled Documents within the EGF and distributed as part of the complete vLEI EGF,
revisions to the vLEI Issuer Qualification Agreement, including all of its appendices, will be
reviewed and approved by GLEIF only.

_Appendix 6: Qualified vLEI Issuer TrustMark Terms of Use_
A document that details the terms of use of the TrustMark by the Qualified vLEI Issuer.

_Appendix 7: Qualified vLEI Issuer-Legal Entity Required Contract Terms_
A document that specifies the contract terms that must be included in the agreement
between a Qualified vLEI Issuer and a Legal Entity for vLEI services.

Identifier and Credential Governance Frameworks

The Identifier Governance Framework focuses on the GLEIF’s Autonomic Identifiers (AIDs).
Each vLEI Credential has its own Credential Governance Framework, one for each of the four
types of vLEI Credentials. These Frameworks include policies and requirements for the
issuance, verification and revocation each vLEI Credential, as well as the fields contained in
each Credential, with a link to the technical schema.

_GLEIF Identifier Governance Framework_
A document that details the purpose, principles, policies, and specifications that apply to
the use of the GLEIF Root Autonomic Identifier (AID) and its GLEIF Delegated AIDs in the vLEI
Ecosystem.

_Qualified vLEI Issuer vLEI Credential Governance Framework_
A document that details the requirements to enable this vLEI Credential to be issued by
GLEIF to Qualified vLEI Issuers which allows the Qualified vLEI Issuers to issue, verify and


revoke Legal Entity vLEI Credentials, Legal Entity Official Organizational Role vLEI Credentials
and Legal Entity Engagement Context Role vLEI Credentials.

_Legal Entity vLEI Credential Governance Framework_
A document that details the requirements for a vLEI Credential, the entity level vLEI
Credential issued by a Qualified vLEI Issuer to a Legal Entity.

_Legal Entity Official Organizational Role vLEI Credential Governance Framework_
A document that details the requirements for vLEI Role Credentials issued to official
representatives of a Legal Entity. These vLEI Credentials are issued by Qualified vLEI Issuers
who are responsible for validation of persons in official roles against one or more public
sources.

_Legal Entity Engagement Context Role vLEI Credential Governance Framework_
A document that details the requirements for vLEI Role Credentials issued to
representatives of a Legal Entity in other than official roles but in functional or other context
of engagement. These vLEI Role Credentials can be issued and revoked by a Legal Entity
itself or a Qualified vLEI Issuer can provide these value-added services to a Legal Entity.

**Remaining Controlled Documents**

Glossary

_verifiable LEI (vLEI) Ecosystem Governance Framework Glossary_
A document that lists all defined terms have been referenced in the vLEI EGF documents.

Risk Assessment

_verifiable LEI (vLEI) Ecosystem Governance Framework Risk Assessment_
A document that assesses certain risk categories regarding the operation of the vLEI
Ecosystem and Infrastructure. Although for purposes of the vLEI EGF, the Risk Assessment is
a separate document, responsible managers within GLEIF will manage these risks as part of
the GLEIF risk register.

Trust Assurance and Certification

_verifiable LEI (vLEI) Ecosystem Governance Framework Trust Assurance Framework_
This document focuses on the ‘MUST’ statements within the other vLEI EGF documents and
specifies the services/processes that will be used to evaluate compliance with these
statements.

Technical Requirements

There are two separate Controlled documents for the EGF Technical Requirements, with
self-explanatory titles.


_verifiable LEI (vLEI) Ecosystem Governance Framework Technical Requirements Part 1 KERI
Infrastructure_

_verifiable LEI (vLEI) Ecosystem Governance Framework Technical Requirements Part 2 vLEI
Credentials_

Information Trust Requirements

_verifiable LEI (vLEI) Ecosystem Governance Framework Information Trust Policies_
This document defines the information security, privacy, availability, confidentiality and
processing integrity policies for the vLEI EGF.

Commit message:

adds vLEI EGF All member meeting presentation
Signed-off-by: Kevin Griffin <griffin.kev@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

**Structure and background purpose of documents of the
verifiable LEI (vLEI) Ecosystem Governance Framework
For Trust over IP Member Review**

The Global Legal Entity Identifier Foundation (GLEIF) is pleased to invite members of the
Trust over IP Foundation to review the draft v1.0 of the verifiable LEI (vLEI) Governance
Framework. The review will run until January 15, 2022.

The documents of an Ecosystem Governance Framework (EGF) are comprised of a Primary
Document, one or more Controlled Documents (separate supporting documents focusing on
dedicated topics for the EGF) and the Credential Governance Frameworks.

To open an issue or comment click [here](https://github.com/trustoverip/egf-vlei-review/issues/new/choose)

A recording of the vLEI EGF [presentation](https://github.com/trustoverip/egf-vlei-review/blob/main/2021-12-08_vLEI-EGF-ToIP_v1.0_final.pdf) given at the Trust Over IP all memeber meeting can be seen [here](https://zoom.us/rec/share/nPLO-xXO24iYQ_zZsMSDhDSQx2aviRh_D5bNfCyVTlSzYyS-uoGXfgHDSJPeVzMq.QwWnkRPq1-QtA-B7)

**Primary Document**

_verifiable LEI (vLEI) Ecosystem Governance Framework Primary Document_
The primary document is the master document for the EGF. GLEIF suggests that you begin
your review of the vLEI EGF with this document.

**Controlled Documents**

Documents for the vLEI Issuer Qualification Program

There are several Controlled Documents that are dedicated to the roles and responsibilities
of Qualified vLEI Issuers. These documents are part of the Legal Agreement section of the
vLEI EGF. The main legal document is the vLEI Issuer Qualification Agreement to which
there are seven appendices.

_vLEI Issuer Qualification Agreement_
An agreement between GLEIF and an organization that has been qualified by GLEIF to
operate as a Qualified vLEI Issuer.

Appendices to vLEI Issuer Qualification Agreement

_Appendix 1: Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA)_
An agreement that outlines requirements for handling confidential information.
The GLEIF’s standard NDA is provided for completeness in the list of documents for the vLEI
Issuer Qualification Program and no feedback is necessary for this document.

_Appendix 2: vLEI Issuer Qualification Program Manual_
The document that describes the Qualification Program.

_Appendix 3: vLEI Issuer Qualification Program Checklist_
The document that details the control and process requirements for Qualification.


_Appendix 4: vLEI Issuer Contact Details_
A list of contact details of GLEIF and the Candidate vLEI Issuer during Qualification and of
GLEIF and the Qualified vLEI Issuer during ongoing operations. This list also will include the
contact details that GLEIF would need in order to manage the termination of a Qualified vLEI
Issuer. For this purpose, the names, titles and email addresses of the Legal Entities’
Authorized vLEI Representatives (AVRs) must be provided and updated on a regular basis as
a section to this appendix.

_Appendix 5: Qualified vLEI Issuer Service Level Agreement (SLA)_
A document that details the services to be provided by GLEIF and the Qualified vLEI Issuers
and the service level requirements for these services.
The formal SLA will be prepared prior to the implementation of the vLEI Issuer Qualification
Program in 2022 as Appendix 5 to the vLEI Issuer Qualification Agreement.

In the meantime, a vLEI Services Catalog has been prepared to provide background of the
services that will be developed for GLEIF and for the network of Qualified vLEI Issuers.

Although the vLEI Issuer Qualification Agreement and its appendices will be listed as
Controlled Documents within the EGF and distributed as part of the complete vLEI EGF,
revisions to the vLEI Issuer Qualification Agreement, including all of its appendices, will be
reviewed and approved by GLEIF only.

_Appendix 6: Qualified vLEI Issuer TrustMark Terms of Use_
A document that details the terms of use of the TrustMark by the Qualified vLEI Issuer.

_Appendix 7: Qualified vLEI Issuer-Legal Entity Required Contract Terms_
A document that specifies the contract terms that must be included in the agreement
between a Qualified vLEI Issuer and a Legal Entity for vLEI services.

Identifier and Credential Governance Frameworks

The Identifier Governance Framework focuses on the GLEIF’s Autonomic Identifiers (AIDs).
Each vLEI Credential has its own Credential Governance Framework, one for each of the four
types of vLEI Credentials. These Frameworks include policies and requirements for the
issuance, verification and revocation each vLEI Credential, as well as the fields contained in
each Credential, with a link to the technical schema.

_GLEIF Identifier Governance Framework_
A document that details the purpose, principles, policies, and specifications that apply to
the use of the GLEIF Root Autonomic Identifier (AID) and its GLEIF Delegated AIDs in the vLEI
Ecosystem.

_Qualified vLEI Issuer vLEI Credential Governance Framework_
A document that details the requirements to enable this vLEI Credential to be issued by
GLEIF to Qualified vLEI Issuers which allows the Qualified vLEI Issuers to issue, verify and


revoke Legal Entity vLEI Credentials, Legal Entity Official Organizational Role vLEI Credentials
and Legal Entity Engagement Context Role vLEI Credentials.

_Legal Entity vLEI Credential Governance Framework_
A document that details the requirements for a vLEI Credential, the entity level vLEI
Credential issued by a Qualified vLEI Issuer to a Legal Entity.

_Legal Entity Official Organizational Role vLEI Credential Governance Framework_
A document that details the requirements for vLEI Role Credentials issued to official
representatives of a Legal Entity. These vLEI Credentials are issued by Qualified vLEI Issuers
who are responsible for validation of persons in official roles against one or more public
sources.

_Legal Entity Engagement Context Role vLEI Credential Governance Framework_
A document that details the requirements for vLEI Role Credentials issued to
representatives of a Legal Entity in other than official roles but in functional or other context
of engagement. These vLEI Role Credentials can be issued and revoked by a Legal Entity
itself or a Qualified vLEI Issuer can provide these value-added services to a Legal Entity.

**Remaining Controlled Documents**

Glossary

_verifiable LEI (vLEI) Ecosystem Governance Framework Glossary_
A document that lists all defined terms have been referenced in the vLEI EGF documents.

Risk Assessment

_verifiable LEI (vLEI) Ecosystem Governance Framework Risk Assessment_
A document that assesses certain risk categories regarding the operation of the vLEI
Ecosystem and Infrastructure. Although for purposes of the vLEI EGF, the Risk Assessment is
a separate document, responsible managers within GLEIF will manage these risks as part of
the GLEIF risk register.

Trust Assurance and Certification

_verifiable LEI (vLEI) Ecosystem Governance Framework Trust Assurance Framework_
This document focuses on the ‘MUST’ statements within the other vLEI EGF documents and
specifies the services/processes that will be used to evaluate compliance with these
statements.

Technical Requirements

There are two separate Controlled documents for the EGF Technical Requirements, with
self-explanatory titles.


_verifiable LEI (vLEI) Ecosystem Governance Framework Technical Requirements Part 1 KERI
Infrastructure_

_verifiable LEI (vLEI) Ecosystem Governance Framework Technical Requirements Part 2 vLEI
Credentials_

Information Trust Requirements

_verifiable LEI (vLEI) Ecosystem Governance Framework Information Trust Policies_
This document defines the information security, privacy, availability, confidentiality and
processing integrity policies for the vLEI EGF.
